modifier: ThomasMoyer
created: 
modified: 20120611143833
type: None
tags: 

''Contribution'': In this paper, the authors discuss challenges in using COTS smart phones for military applications. They identify the challenges and then discuss potential solutions for each challenge. The desire is for the utilize COTS systems to process military information, as opposed to using more expensive solutions that are specialized for government use. However, such phones were not designed with the goal of processing classified voice and data, and as such present unique challenges.

''Motivation'': A driving factor is using COTS equipment is the ability to reduce cost, by allowing commercial consumers to create additional demand, i.e. with many consumers buying smart phones, the cost per phone drops dramatically. If the military can buy the same types of devices, they will be able to leverage this drop in cost, saving money on each device.

''Methodology'': The authors examine several different potential challenges, including device integrity, unsecured infrastructure, supply chain risks, and device durability and robustness. In each case, the authors examine several mechanisms to mitigate the risks. They begin with lost devices, that may store classified information. They examine several scenarios, such as a lost device, a stolen device, and captured device. In each case, they present a proposed mitigation, such as 2-factor authentication, duress codes and data isolation and protection mechanisms, such as ARM's TrustZone extensions. Next, the authors outline an approach to develop a security solution for COTS smart phones. They describe encryption solutions for data at rest, data in transit, and data in processing. Next, they propose the use of a separation kernel to isolate sensitive data. The authors then examine the pros and cons of using a managed solution, similar to BlackBerry's Enterprise Server solution that allows each device to be centrally managed.

In addition to software solutions, hardware security is examined. This hardware would provide a trusted security solution for things like user authentication and anti-tamper. They examine the pros and cons of adding hardware, including additional cost (con) and additional functionality (pro). Finally, the authors consider the certification and accreditation process, and how a COTS phone would be impacted by such a process.

''Take-away'': Overall, there is a desire to leverage COTS components in government systems. In this work, the authors outline an approach for dealing with many of the challenges that this transition will present.

''Keywords'': COTS components, C&A process, software challenges, software isolation, strong isolation guarantees, hardware-based root-of-trust, economy of scale, building defense systems with COTS components, centralized management, remote wipe, remote provisioning, OTA updates, push security policy updates, secure cryptographic solution to mitigate attacks, prevent spoofing of centralized administrative messages

''Cite key'':bjep11
Buibish, A.-M.; Johnson, N. E.; Emery, D. & Prudlow, M. Cryptographic Solutions for COTS Smart Phones Proceedings of MILCOM, 2011

